[Rework] Dockerless Node Running Rework (#882)
ethereum-optimism/community-hub: src/docs/developers/nodes/mainnet.md

You will need 500+ GB for this part alone.

1. Download the data directory snapshot. This is a large file so expect it to take some time. [Bedrock Data Directory (303GB)](https://datadirs.optimism.io/mainnet-bedrock.tar.zst)

::: tip Protip
Use a tool like [aria2](https://aria2.github.io/) to reduce the chance of your data directory being corrupted.
:::

2. Check the validity of your download. This is an important step. Corrupted data directories will make your node fail. So ensure your checksum matches.

   ```bash
   sha256sum mainnet-bedrock.tar.zst
   # expected output
   ec4baf47e309a14ffbd586dc85376833de640c0f2a8d7355cb8a9e64c38bfcd1  mainnet-bedrock.tar.zst
   ```

   OR
   
   ```bash
   sha512sum mainnet-bedrock.tar.zst
   # expected output
   c17067b7bc39a6daa14f71d448c6fa0477834c3e68a25e96f26fe849c12a09bffe510e96f7eacdef19e93e3167d15250f807d252dd6f6f9053d0e4457c73d5fb mainnet-bedrock.tar.zst
   ```
   

3. Create the data directory in `op-geth` and fill it. This will take time.

   Navigate into your `op-geth` directory and run these commands:
   ```sh
   mkdir datadir
   cd datadir
   tar xvf <<PATH_TO_DATA_DIR>>
   ```

> #### (Optional - Archive Node) Get the data directory for `l2geth`

Reviewer: Only for OP Mainnet

   ```sh
   #!/usr/bin/bash

   cd ../optimism-legacy/l2geth

   USING_OVM=true \
     ETH1_SYNC_SERVICE_ENABLE=false \
     RPC_API=eth,rollup,net,web3,debug \
     RPC_ENABLE=true \
     RPC_PORT=8546 \ # need to rebind port because op-geth uses the same default port
     ./build/bin/geth --datadir ./datadir
   ```

5. Run the following command to start `l2geth`:
   
   ```sh
   ./run-l2geth.sh
   ```

### `op-geth`

1. Navigate into your `scripts` directory:

2. Create a new file: 
   ```sh
   touch run-op-geth.sh
   ```

3. Make it executable: 
   ```sh
   chmod +x run-op-geth.sh
   ```

4. Insert this snippet of code into `run-op-geth.sh` and modify the path to the `op-geth` directory.

    ```sh
    #! /usr/bin/bash

    SEQUENCER_URL=https://mainnet-sequencer.optimism.io/

    cd <<Path to op-geth directory>>

    ./build/bin/geth \
      --datadir=./datadir \
      --http \
      --http.port=8545 \
      --http.addr=0.0.0.0 \
      --authrpc.addr=localhost \
      --authrpc.jwtsecret=./jwt.txt \
      --verbosity=3 \
      --rollup.sequencerhttp=$SEQUENCER_URL \
      --nodiscover \
      --syncmode=full \
      --maxpeers=0
    ```

::: info Archive Nodes

> You will need to point `op-geth` at `l2geth` with `--rollup.historicalrpc`: Enables the historical RPC endpoint. This endpoint is used to fetch historical execution data from Legacy Geth. This flag is only necessary for upgraded networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to point `op-geth` at `l2geth` with `--rollup.historicalrpc`: Enables the historical RPC endpoint. This endpoint is used to fetch historical execution data from Legacy Geth from before the [Bedrock upgrade](https://twitter.com/optimismFND/status/1666850591669202965). This flag is only necessary for OP Mainnet.
```

You will also need to add `--gcmode archive`.
:::

> ::: info Snapshots

Reviewer: What is the actionable here? Is there a flag recommended to be set? I think this just adds confusion unless there is an actionable.

The datadirs provided by OP Labs have a pre-generated snapshot. If the node is using a datadir without a snapshot, the two options are to disable snapshots until the node is synced or
to disable peering until snapshots are created and then let the node sync to tip.
If a node is synced using snap sync, it will automatically have snapshots.
:::

5. Run the following command to start `op-geth`:
   
   ```bash
   ./run-op-geth.sh
   ```

### `op-node`

1. Navigate to the `scripts` directory you created.
   
2. Create a new file: 
   ```sh
   touch run-op-node.sh
   ```
3. Make it executable: 
   ```sh
   chmod +x run-op-node.sh
   ```
4. Insert this snippet of code into `run-op-node.sh`:
   
    ```sh
    #!/usr/bin/bash

    L1URL=<< URL to L1 >>
    L1KIND=basic
    NET=mainnet

    cd <<Path to op-node directory>>

    ./bin/op-node \
        --l1=$L1URL  \
        --l1.rpckind=$L1KIND \
        --l2=http://localhost:8551 \
        --l2.jwt-secret=./jwt.txt \
        --network=$NET \
        --rpc.addr=0.0.0.0 \
        --rpc.port=8547

    ```        

> - Change `<< URL to L1 >>` to your local L1 node or a service provider's URL for the L1 node (L1 Ethereum).

Reviewer: provide an example: "E.g. for Infura, 1https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/API_KEY`"

```

And log messages such as these from `op-geth`:

```
INFO [06-26|14:02:12.974] Imported new potential chain segment     number=4,068,194 hash=a334a0..609a83 blocks=1         txs=1         mgas=0.000  elapsed=1.482ms     mgasps=0.000   age=5mo2w20h dirty=2.31MiB
INFO [06-26|14:02:12.976] Chain head was updated                   number=4,068,194 hash=a334a0..609a83 root=e80f5e..dd06f9 elapsed="188.373µs" age=5mo2w20h
INFO [06-26|14:02:12.982] Starting work on payload                 id=0x5542117d680dbd4e
```

#### How long will the synchronization take?

To estimate how long the synchronization will take, you need to first find out how many blocks you synchronize in a minute. You can use this [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) script to get an estimated sync time.

1. Navigate to your `scripts` directory
2. Create a new file: 
   ```sh
   touch run-estimate.sh
   ```
3. Make it executable: 
   ```sh
   chmod +x run-estimate.sh
   ```

> 4. Insert this snippet of code into `run-estimate.sh`:

Reviewer: This is a bit messy to have in our docs, can't we instead put this in a repo somewhere and let them clone it? I don't like the idea of copy and pasting huge scripts from our docs

Reviewer 2: I think since this step is just for estimating sync time, it's ok to remove later.
